create system inventory.
Ah,
step by step user input.
Um,
in this lesson,
we are actually going to create a script that will ask from a user for its input any type
off form or record that VR you will have to create and limit.
Now,
if you are running,
let's say your Apache server are your Web server.
Then you probably would have to give some kind of form to the user so they will come in and
type in,
Let's say,
even a DNS record or you in a ah system Inventory in our case will put in a host name you
put in an I P address,
you put in a description or any other information that's a kind of form your given right
and then you click on Save at that record is safe.
That's how we really see it online whenever we go online and we never be typing and from
information that is saved somewhere,
most likely in bigger companies it has saved in a database.
But now,
since we're creating our own little database only inventory,
we will keep track off all assistance of you build,
so there has to be away so you could we could have the script together and we could expose
that script on our web server so user can use it as a form and put that information in
anything that you want to do that could be done later.
But now,
for now,
for this lesson,
you will learn that the first group that will create is that script that will add a record
.
So it will ask you,
Do you want to add a record?
And so please,
pride provide host name Second question will ask you.
Please provide.
Um I p address of the system.
3rd 1 is pleased Provided description of the system.
Once all that information is provided,
that information is saved into ah file.
Since it's the Lennox machine,
it will be saved in a regular text file.
Um,
if you are using Windows,
the most of people create this excel sheet to keep track of all their equipment.
Do all type of s and manage second type of scribble will cover is about deleting erect.
So this scribble asked,
um,
pretty much the same things that the first group,
but in this case,
it will ask to delete the wreck and the third script that we will cover.
It's about combining both the above scripts off to add a record and to delete a record.
So we will use a K statement in which it will ask High User,
What do you want to do?
Do you want to add a record,
or do you want to lead a wreck?
User picks a off to add a record or be to the leader record,
depending on their choices.
Then it will take them to the either the first script or the skirt seconds script.
So this is what we are actually going to learn.
So let's let me get into real quickly.
My limits machine.
Okay,
I have it open.
Um,
I am logged in as myself.
And I am in my home,
my Home directory and PS directory,
which is the professional scripts directory that created Now the first thing before I start
writing a script,
I need to create an MT.
File there.
All the input will be stored once,
um,
once actually provided by the user.
So I'm gonna create touch database.
I'm gonna call it database.
That's verified steer yet,
but the last one is the data Okay,
let's clear the screen now.
The first thing I want to do is to add a record.
So let's create a new script call ad record.
And you know what we have to do here?
We have to define the bash.
The comments and the comment could be the author date description.
One of my favorite this script will ad system in Mentor.
Two database files modified.
Leave the same date.
Okay,
all of formalities are done.
Standard is followed.
Now let's get into asking question from the user.
What do you want to ask?
The first question.
And when you ask the first question,
you have to throw that question on the screen.
And to display that question on the screen,
you have to use which command echo.
Yes,
Echo,
Please enter host name because we are going to create an inventory off our system.
I've been every building new system.
You could add your system inventory into this database file.
Please end to you host name,
question Mark.
And then what do we do with that?
Once we throw that question on the screen,
to the user,
the usable and to the host name.
Once the host name is entered on the screen.
Then we wanted to capture that and put that into variable.
Right?
And to put that answer into a variable,
we have to use a command read,
read.
Um,
could use any variable name that you like,
but I'll pick hosting just host because host name itself is command.
And I don't want to confuse you with the actual command,
so I'm just gonna leave read host Echo.
The second echo I'm adding is because too put in an empty line on the screen so it will
look neat.
All right,
Now what we wanted to do first thing first before I add a record into my database fall,
I want to check the host name the user has entered Does not previously exist in the
database file.
If it does,
I am going to ever out that So two error that out.
Let's do grip my s Q Q isn't for silent and dollar host.
His host is our variable.
From where are regretting this,
we have to define absolute path.
Andi,
the Absolute Path file,
which is home life Soul P s database.
Remember this is the while be created before we started working on the script.
Okay,
so this is going to actually grab from this.
Um Ah,
grip the output off the host from this file.
Okay,
Perfect.
Now next thing is simple.
If then if the output.
Which is what is that The return code?
Yes.
If the output is successful,
which is equal,
zero does find it.
Then echo ever host name which is the host that you entered already exist and simply go out
another line just to make a niedere an exit.
This and fee for the F Debbie opened up.
That's pretty much it's for hosting.
Now we will do the same thing for sick in question.
First we'll ask the second question,
which is echo.
Please enter I p address.
Read that I p put in an echo as an empty line and then I will do the same thing.
Grab minus cures and silent $4 I p which is the variable from where from home I have solved
PS and a database fall.
If the output,
which is dollar question mark,
is equal 20 which is the return satis it's successful then never I p which is the variable
already exist then simply eco again.
It's a line exit here too.
If the I p exists,
just don't do anything.
And then pretty much and if with feet nice.
Okay,
so we have asked two questions and we wanted to verify or validate these two answers
against our database fall if that,
um,
answer provided by the user already exists or not.
Perfect.
Now that there the question I want to ask the user is let me hit and her keys.
So this way it will be easier to see on the screen.
So echo,
please enter description.
And we want to read the description and put in one more eco.
And now just go out that host,
which we have the host that we asked on the first question right here,
Host with the I p.
With the description,
I'm just gonna copy description.
So this year I don't make a mistake in dispelling and to read Eric,
sign to our database files could use one,
but then every time the script runs is gonna override it,
and it would delete all the records that were added previously.
So it's gonna add,
and then I could put at the end Um,
no.
Before I to that,
um I will just put right here.
Co provided record has been perfect.
Right?
And just put one maurico just for it to look.
Save it.
Okay,
now assigned.
Execute permissions to run it.
Address her,
Please enter Host name.
I'll put in Red Hat one,
please enter I p address 1 92 1 68 1 dot I'll start with you.
Please enter the description.
This is a redhead.
Ah,
Version six.
The provided record has been added.
Perfect.
Okay,
Sanel,
when we go and do cat our database file,
you will see that record being added.
See,
now,
what we could do is to make it look,
um hello.
Neat and clean and organized.
We could just v i r database file.
And right here we,
um um the name,
which is the host name I P and description.
It has not no effect on a script.
It's just that I am putting it in so it will be easier.
Okay,
The record is added now that me try to run the same script with the same record,
So then we will see it will complain that this record already exists So that's clear the
screen Bad.
Please enter.
Host Name read.
Had one from ever host named Red had already exists.
Perfect.
It is doing its job.
Please enter.
Hosting bread hat to it doesn't exist right now.
Let's please enter I ps 1 90 to 1 68 Towanda too.
Add record line 23 Error Command now found.
Okay.
We have an issue in the script,
guys.
So let's look at it while it is actually validating the I p.
Better sexist or not,
it is complaining that the something is not right in our and what is not right.
The line in line 23.
It's his error command,
not phone.
Why?
Because first of all,
error itself is No.
There is not a command.
We should have an echo in front.
Probably don't have that.
So let's go look at Line 23.
This V I add record and just put cold.
23 will take a straight to that line.
Ah,
yes.
You see,
what I did is I put it in.
If the return status is zero which is successful,
then it should have been here and then echo.
This should be echo you don't want that.
Then error the simple picks.
Also,
make sure whenever you run and you get an error message back.
Read it.
See what had Saiz.
Okay,
lets try again.
Now add record,
please enter Hosting.
Read.
Had to please enter I p address 1 92 toe 1 68 Towanda to this time.
Ah,
the I P address already exist.
OK,
now we know our check about host name and I p address works.
Per,
um that's ad command in my ad record.
And that command I wanted to do is every time it runs,
it's clear the screen first.
So this way you don't see anything that you already working on.
It should bring up a news.
Okay,
so that's running,
and you will see what I'm talking about.
So then you run ad and it better,
you see,
came over the newer screen at it,
actually pushed all the stuff that you had on the screen,
pushed it up.
So it looks better.
Looks profession,
please enter Hosting red hat to Okay,
please enter I ps one eye to the 1 68 1.3 Please enter description.
Red hat work seven.
Perfect.
That provided record has This is just the information that we have a deal.
Okay,
So this is what we we wanted to do to create or add.
Now we need to create another script that will,
instead of adding it,
it will delete that.
Right?
So before we go ahead and try our delete record,
let's add another record.
So we could actually have quite a few record to play with,
So,
um,
please enter host names.
Red Hat three.
I PS just 19 to 1 68 at $1 for,
um,
Red Hat test machine at it.
Now,
if I do cat database,
we'll see.
I should have three records.
Yes,
I do.
All right,
so now clear the screen.
And now I want you to copy,
add record to delete.
Right now,
we have copied be either delete record.
And you could just sleep everything up and delete everything right here because starting
used and change the description.
Of course.
This will the elite system inventory the system from inventory data?
No.
Now what we want Firsts.
Always asked the question.
We cannot at any record if you don't ask questions.
Dad,
please enter host name or I p address.
And now why am I asking either host name or I p s?
The reason I'm asking is because either the user enters the I P address or Deep host name.
We should give that option right in front.
So they should that next come ever basically would grab for that input and delete the Rick
.
It's just that simple.
I don't have to ask please into the i p address,
please into the host name.
And then it will go into either entered from the host name or grab it from the I P.
It's a bit cumbersome,
so we'll just ask.
Just put an I p.
R or host name and I'll do the job.
And then what we wanted to do with their output.
We wanted to read it.
Read Host our host I p.
Whatever.
Variable name that you want a specimen.
Give it a go to for the empty line.
No,
Griff.
Minus que Again?
Quiet host I p from my database file.
Yes,
that returns.
Um zero zero.
If the excess status zero then echo.
Now be have found i p or the host name provided by this by the user.
And now,
before we go ahead and deleted,
we wanted to make sure the I P or the host and provided by the user actually exist in that
database fall.
We're not just gonna go into the violence,
start the leading it.
What?
We don't have anything,
So we first need to validate if it exists.
And to make that validation,
we have to grab Dad,
provide a name from our file.
And if I get the result,
which is right here,
if the result is successful,
then you could go ahead and delete it.
And to delete a record and updated you have to use a command,
said said,
is a very powerful command,
one of my favorite commands that could do a lot of things.
A lot of wonders in a farm.
Um,
one of modification.
So said minus I single code slash host I p single coat coat around the variable single coat
from home lie of Soul PS to you.
So don't worry.
Let me explain it to you.
It's what it's doing is it's going into this file and it's trying to find host I P,
which is provided by the user name right here.
And once it finds it,
deletes it.
So you see that slash and slash What I'm saying is,
whenever you find this this provided variable and slash deed,
replace it,
replace it with what?
But D And but he is,
it's to delete that line.
If you want to put in.
Let's see if I put it right here.
Is Jose P with old just like that and then I will do so.
Put an s here.
Then it would.
What it will do is actually through place.
That name provided with the name old,
but we don't want to replace it.
We want to delete their records.
So it's that take out the substitution which is s and take out the word old and put d the
actual delete delete.
So this is what it's doing and then go the host i p,
which is the variable,
has been deleted.
Nice.
Okay,
so now be a good We found the provided host name or i P and we checked.
We validated it from the database and we deleted it.
What if it does not find from this file the uses,
his hate go ahead in the lead,
right had five.
Hey,
I don't have a read of five.
If that return status is not zero,
then do what Then we'll say Else cool record,
which is the host i p,
which is a variable,
does not exist.
Simple Is that en re close our fee?
Sorry if that's it.
Hopefully you understand.
It's very simply written and done,
and I'll go ahead and try to run that Delete records hit.
Enter,
please enter host name or I P Address.
Now I'm going to do the same thing I did in my earlier script to clear the screens.
I'm just going to control sea N b I the script again,
and I'll just put in clear this tough.
So again it will look profession.
Let's run it Delete.
Okay,
Please enter Host name or I P.
Ed,
I'm gonna put a red hat 36 just to check this to play with it,
see if it actually finds it or not.
Record Red Hat 36 does not exist.
Perfect.
This is what I want my script to do.
And it is doing its job.
Perfect.
No,
let's delete a record actual record.
We remember we have a record Red Hat one.
Let's try that redhead one read had one has been deleted.
Nice.
But is did it actually delete it?
How can we verify We could actually do cat our database file,
right?
It actually goes into this file database and it deletes it from this database.
Right?
So that's very fight.
Yes,
The redhead one.
It's gone.
Perfect.
Okay,
so I have add a record.
I haven't a leader record.
Now I am going to create 1/3 script right here,
which will combine both of these scripts and asked the option from the user to what option
they want to pick.
Do they want to add record?
Or that we want to delete a wreck?
So I will go.
Here is what I will do is I'll copy one of the script add record and I'll rename.
Is this inventory A management?
Nice.
Okay,
so now inventory management,
Let's come down here.
Description.
This script will I ask to add or delete a wreck from database?
The rest is okay.
Clear?
Yes,
I want to Clear right below.
Clear.
Just go ahead and delete every you could start from.
Okay.
First thing first echo.
Clear line another echo.
Please select one off the following up,
and those options are Go to the line echo comma.
So I,
uh dot com a coat single coat a equal.
Add a right single court second,
what do you want to give the option for the 2nd 1?
D?
Because the leader the leader record,
right?
You could pick be,
too.
But it's better to pick d delete all right,
And that so far,
what the script is going to ask is,
please select one of the options following option.
And options are a is to delete at a record,
and D is to delete a record so the user has to either enter A or D.
So now,
at this point,
whatever the choices that are made by the user,
I will read those choices and I will put in a variable and we'll call that variable choice
is just a variable.
It's not actually choice choice,
some kind of command.
So you could even put to read I if you wanted.
That will be a variable where answer off the user will go inside of their variable,
so I'll put pick choice now,
once I read the choice I will say case case is the statement and I will do dollar choice in
all my choices.
Whichever the choice that's a pick.
Put it in a case statement.
And once the case statement is being put in,
then what to do?
So for a do this home I of soul PS head correct,
Right?
This is a script that will actually adds a record cold and semi colons chemical.
This is how the case statement works,
De whom I have solved ps the leak right?
Semi colons him perfect.
Anything else if use it enters anything s else beside a or d Then just say echo in Belet
choice by and we will end.
Oh,
are que statement would e s a c?
Why an empty line here?
Nothing.
No reason you could put it here as well,
but I just wanted to make okay,
so I Hopefully you understand what I just did here.
So basically,
from here to here is just what it is throwing in the screen.
And then whatever the option is picked by the user,
it will lock in into this variable choice,
then is going to read those choices in and it's going to run based on the choice.
If the choice is a right here,
the choices a run,
this command the choice is D.
Run this command.
If the choice is anything but A and D,
then says,
Hey,
involve a choice by and then close this thing just that simple.
Safe.
Our script.
Run our script in Mentor E Management and,
er,
please select one of the following options.
Hmm.
Add a record de to delete a record.
Let's try adding a record.
First a hit.
Enter.
Okay,
See,
It took us to another script,
and that script is to add a record.
Now we'll add a record Red hat five.
I p.
Address 19 to 1 68.1 dot six description.
Red hat.
Um,
second,
whatever did it.
The provider record has been at it.
Awesome.
Now let's do the same thing for delete inventory.
Managed police like one of the appalling options.
Now,
this time,
selectee and a took us to the second script.
Please enter host name or I P address.
Now I'm gonna pick 1 90 to 1 68.1 dot six.
The address I just entered Hit Enter that I p address has been deleted.
Awesome.
Now,
the last choice,
if I just accidentally hit um be and B is not one of the choices,
right,
guys and her invalid choice by perfect See how easy it becomes to put that in a a real
structural form.
Way to add inventory.
Now,
adding an inventory is just one of the example that I picked.
I have work many times in the past where I would have to create Ah,
some kind off file or keep track off some inventory regardless off host name right here.
Anything else?
So you could actually use this script and provide that to your users so they could add it
instead off v eyeing the file and adding the record because most people are not comfortable
.
V i the fire.
So try that and try it.
But different options.
You could also add four scripts or five different scripts and put all those scripts
together into one means